= Trafikanten Travel Planner

== Description

This is a simple way to request information about travel routes within the
public transport system of greater Oslo, Norway. There is no API for looking
up route information, so this library gives you an unofficial one. Note that
since it is unofficial it might stop working at any time. It should however
be easy to adjust this code to make it work again.

There are typically two things you need to do to retrieve information about a
route:

* Find the stations you want to travel from and to
* Use these to query for a route between them

=== Finding stations
You query trafikanten.no by the name of the station and you receive an array of hits with information about each

	require 'trafikanten_travel'
	stations = Station.find_by_name 'Sthanshaugen'

The station objects will have attributes for name, id, type, lat and lng. lat and lng might not be available, and are then set to nil.

=== Finding a route between stations
Once you have the stations, you use them to search for a Route:

	from = stations[0]
	to = stations[1]
	route = Route.find(from, to)
	
	# or specify a time
	route = Route.find(from, to, a_time_object)

This will query trafikanten.no for the first available route between the
stations based on Time.now or the passed in time and parse the route it found,
if any. The Route object will have a duration attribute for the duration of
the trip in minutes, and a steps array with a Step object for each leg of the
journey. Each Step object tells you its type (walk, wait, tram, subway, boat,
train, bus), duration in minutes, and arrival and departure station names
along with times for these. All these are attributes on the Step object.

== TODO
* Also include 'area' stations, which are not actual stations but regions
* Implement finding routes by street address
* Implement via-stations to chain routes together
* Let the depart and arrive stations in Step be actual Station objects

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests

* Fork the project.
* Add tests in spec/
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Commit, do not mess with Rakefile or VERSION. (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Running tests

  rake

If you get errors about missing gems - `bundle install` should get you sorted.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Rune Botten. See LICENSE for details.
